README.md, before:

Using the OOPSLA '23 Artifact
=============================

The "artifact" is the Docker image distributed with the paper
["Generating Proof Certificates for a Language-Agnostic Deductive
Program Verifier"][paper] by Lin, Chen, Trinh, Wang, Rosu. The artifact's
`README.md` is downloaded and committed here as [`ARTIFACT.md`][ar].

The [`run`] command will download the artifact Docker image, load it,
and start a Docker container based on that image with this directory
mounted in the container as `/mnt`.
- You can place/edit any files you like in this directory to use them
  in the container; updates made outside the container will be seen
  immediately inside it.
- See the [`.gitignore`](.gitignore) file for where to place things
  that you don't want coming up in your `git status` output. E.g.,
  putting things under `tmp/` is handy because everything there is
  ignored.

There is a copy of the above paper in the container, in
`/opt/proof-generation/paper.pdf`. You can copy this to `/mnt/` to
extract it from the container so you can read it in your browser or
PDF viewer.

### Evaluation

You may, if you wish, run the evaluation as described in the 'Getting
Started" section of the [original README][r]. This is not required,
however, and takes ten minutes or more to run. All other operations below
work without this.

    cd /opt/proof-generation/evaluation
    make -j16           # Or approx. the number of cores/CPU threads you have
    python3 stats.py    # Might not work without container-setup below

### Symbolic Proofs

When you enter the container you should first run the following to do
some additional setup, including setting up convenient aliases for
useful scripts. You may edit the file to add additional personal
configuration as well.

    . /mnt/container-setup.bash

The `/mnt/sample` directory contains a small toy imperative language, IMP,
and some programs written in it on which you can test this.

    cd /mnt/sample
    psym imp.k IMP assign.imp --output out.assign/
    metamath out.assign/goal.mm         # give this REPL `verify proof *`

You should see the final claim appear, and a number of Metamath (`*.mm`)
files appear in the `out.assign/` subdirectory. `goal.mm` is the top level
of the output and the top-level proof is `goal $p |- … $= … $.` at the end
of that file. `goal.mm` also starts an include chain of files in
`out.assign/` and eventually `theory/`; tracing through this include chain
can give some sense of the overall structure.

The intermediate files of this process are somewhat hidden under
`.ml-proof-cache-imp/`. These are in two components:
- `rewriting-task-*.yml`: These should contain the hints produced by the
  parsing of the `*` program, though they are currently empty. The system
  is apparently capable of producing the hints, but it's not clear how to
  make it do that.
- `imp-kompiled/`: The standard K `kompile` output directory for a language
  definition. Note that this does not include anything related to the
  program run in that language, just the language itself.



<!-------------------------------------------------------------------->
[ar]: ./ARTIFACT.md
[`run`]: ./run
[paper]: https://zenodo.org/records/7503088

Commit message:

README: Notes on KORE and KAST files

README.md, after:

Using the OOPSLA '23 Artifact
=============================

The "artifact" is the Docker image distributed with the paper
["Generating Proof Certificates for a Language-Agnostic Deductive
Program Verifier"][paper] by Lin, Chen, Trinh, Wang, Rosu. The artifact's
`README.md` is downloaded and committed here as [`ARTIFACT.md`][ar].

The [`run`] command will download the artifact Docker image, load it,
and start a Docker container based on that image with this directory
mounted in the container as `/mnt`.
- You can place/edit any files you like in this directory to use them
  in the container; updates made outside the container will be seen
  immediately inside it.
- See the [`.gitignore`](.gitignore) file for where to place things
  that you don't want coming up in your `git status` output. E.g.,
  putting things under `tmp/` is handy because everything there is
  ignored.

There is a copy of the above paper in the container, in
`/opt/proof-generation/paper.pdf`. You can copy this to `/mnt/` to
extract it from the container so you can read it in your browser or
PDF viewer.

### Evaluation

You may, if you wish, run the evaluation as described in the 'Getting
Started" section of the [original README][r]. This is not required,
however, and takes ten minutes or more to run. All other operations below
work without this.

    cd /opt/proof-generation/evaluation
    make -j16           # Or approx. the number of cores/CPU threads you have
    python3 stats.py    # Might not work without container-setup below

### Symbolic Proofs

When you enter the container you should first run the following to do
some additional setup, including setting up convenient aliases for
useful scripts. You may edit the file to add additional personal
configuration as well.

    . /mnt/container-setup.bash

The `/mnt/sample` directory contains a small toy imperative language, IMP,
and some programs written in it on which you can test this.

    cd /mnt/sample
    psym imp.k IMP assign.imp --output out.assign/
    metamath out.assign/goal.mm         # give this REPL `verify proof *`

You should see the final claim appear, and a number of Metamath (`*.mm`)
files appear in the `out.assign/` subdirectory. `goal.mm` is the top level
of the output and the top-level proof is `goal $p |- … $= … $.` at the end
of that file. `goal.mm` also starts an include chain of files in
`out.assign/` and eventually `theory/`; tracing through this include chain
can give some sense of the overall structure.

The intermediate files of this process are somewhat hidden under
`.ml-proof-cache-imp/`. These are in two components:
- `rewriting-task-*.yml`: These should contain the hints produced by the
  parsing of the `*` program, though they are currently empty. The system
  is apparently capable of producing the hints, but it's not clear how to
  make it do that.
- `imp-kompiled/`: The standard K `kompile` output directory for a language
  definition. Note that this does not include anything related to the
  program run in that language, just the language itself. These include:
  - `definition.kore`: Used to generate the interpreter.
  - `syntaxDefinition.kore`: Facilitates the pretty-printer.
  - `parsed.txt`: (for humans only) KAST of the language at the parsing stage.
  - `compiled.txt`: (for humans only) KAST of the language at the compile stage.



<!-------------------------------------------------------------------->
[ar]: ./ARTIFACT.md
[`run`]: ./run
[paper]: https://zenodo.org/records/7503088
